The WRspice Josephson Tunnel Junction Model

This is a physics-based model of a Josephson junction.  The tunneling
physics is represented with a formulation similar to MitMojCo
(https://github.com/drgulevich/mitmojco), using the mmjco program
provided with WRspice.  The mmjco program is used to compute tunnel
current amplitude tables and compresssed "fit" files as needed.  These
are saved in the user's $HOME/.mmjco directory, so are available
immediately after generation (generation may take a few tens of seconds).

Temerature dependence of the order parameter is computed directly from
the BCS theory using a numerical solution to equation 3.52 of Tinkham,
Introduction to Superconductivity, 2nd ed.  p.  63.
The problem is duscussed in
https://physics.stackexchange.com/questions/54200/superconducting-gap-
 temperature-dependence-how-to-calculate-this-integral
however we use a different solution technique.

Similarly, the temperature correction to the critical current is
obtained from equations based on the Ambegaoker and Baratoff result,
also given as equation 6.10 in Tinkham.  the multiplicative correction
factor is the ratio of the result at the operating temperature to that
at the nominal temperature.

Although many of the model parameters can be given explicitly, the intent is
for only the fundamental parameters, listed below, to be provided.  The model
will be purely physics-based in that case.  The default parameters apply to
niobium.

The basic model parameters are
tc1,2     Superconducting transition temperatures of the two electrodes.
tdebye1,2 The Debye temperatures of the two electrrodes.
tnom      The nominal temperature, where the critical current is measured.
temp      The operating temperature.
icrit     The critical current at nominal temperature.
cpic,cap  Specification of device capacitance.

There is provision for adding shunt resistance to match measured Vm and
add explicit resistance to damp junctions for convenience in circuits.
Other parameters may provide empirical tweaks and establish timestep
control.

The full list of model parameters is found below.

Model Parameters

coeffset
if given, the string must name a coefficient set fit file in the
coefficient search path.  if not given, the needed coefficient set
name is generated from given values of physical parameters.  Missing
sets are auto-generated via mmjco and saved in the user's $HOME/.mmjco
directory.  The search path is may be provided by a user in a WRspice
list variable named "tjm_path", the default path is "( .  $HOME/.mmjco
)"

cct
0 no pair current.
1 include pair current (the default).
This allows the user so suppress the pair current, which may be useful
on occasion, say for observing a clean quasiparticle branch i-v curve.

rtype
0 no quasiparticle current
1 has quasiparticle current (the default)
Allows suppression of quasiparticle current for model debugging.

del1
del2
Specify the two electrode order parameters directly (in volts).  If
not given, values are computed internally from temperature and other
parameters using BCS theory.
0.05mv = 5mv, no default.

vg/vgap
If given, specifies or overrides del1 and del2 as equal and half of
vg.  If not given, the value is taken as del1 + del2.
0.1mv - 10mv, no default.

tnom
The temperature assumed for critical current measurement.
0 - 280, default 4.2

temp
Operating temperature.
0 - 280, default tnom

tc
tc1
tc2
Critical temperature for two electrodes, default 9.2K (for niobium). 
tc sets or overrides tc1 and tc2 as equal to the value given.
0.5 - 280, default 9.2

tdebye
tdebye1
tdebye2
The Debye temperature for the two electrodes, default 276K (niobium). 
tdebye sets or overrides the tdebye1 and tdebye2 values as equal to
the value given.
40 - 500, default 276

smf
The smoothing parameter, used to finitize the Riedel singularity when
generating tunnel current amplitude tables.
.001 - .099, default .008

nterms
The number of terms used in the fitting table.
6-20, default 8

nxpts
The number of entries in the TCA table being compressed.
100-9999, default 500

thr
The threshold used in the fitting algorithm.
0.1-0.5, default 0.2

icrit
Model critical current at the nominal temperature.
1e-9 - 1e-1, default 1e-3 A.

cap
Model capacitance.
default cpic times the model nominal critical current.
range 0 - 1e-6 times the model nominal critical current,

cpic
Model capacitance per critical current at nominal temperature.
0 - 1e-6, default 0.7e-9 F/A

cmu
Capacitance scaling parameter from model to instance with area A.
Cinst = Cmodel(A*(1-cmu) + sqrt(A)*cmu)
The default is linear scaling, however edge effects can be included if
necessary.
0 - 1.0, default 0.

vm
Product of Model critical current at nominal temperature and subgap
resistance.  This will generally add empirical conductance, as the
microscopic model typically underestimates subgap conductance, as it
does not account for multiple Andreev reflections through pinholes or
other effects which are found in real junctions.  If 0, or iv larger
than the intrinsic value, no additional conductance is added.
0 or 8mv - 100mv, default 16.5mv

r0, rsub
Subgap resistance.  If 0, no additionalresistance added,
0 or vm / model nominal critical current.

gmu
Subgap resistance scaling factor from model to instance with area A.
inst_g0 = model_g0*(A*(1-gmu) + sqrt(A)*gmu);
The default is linear scaling, however edge effects can be included if
necessary.
default 0.

noise
Noise scale factor (currently unused).

icfct, icfact
Ratio of critical current to quasiparticle step height at nominal
temperature.  The BCS value of pi/4 often overestimates this effect in
measured junctions.  A smaller value may be a useful empirical adjustment.
0.5 = pi/4, default pi/4

vshunt
Add shunt linear conductance so that R = vshunt/Ic in the subgap
region.  This is for convenience when using the element in SFQ
circuits, as it avoids the need to add explicit damping resistors.

force
Allow out of range parameter values.

lsh0
Constant part of series inductance of shunt resistor effectively added
by vshunt.

lsh1
Linear (in resistance) part of shunt resistor series inductnace.

tsfactor
Phase change maximum per time step per 2pi phase change.

tsaccel
Ratio of maximum time step to that at dropback voltage.

Read-Only

rsint
The intrinsic subgap resistance of the reference junction, i.e., not
including any additional conductance added through vm, r0, vshunt.

vdp
Dropback voltage.

omegaj
Plasma resonance frequency, radians.

betac
Stewart-McCumber parameter.

ictempfct
Critical current temperature correction factor.

Instance Parameters

area
The scaling factor to the model critical current.

ics
The expected instance nominal temperaturecritical current.  This is
used to obtain the "area" scaling factor, which will be used to scale
the temperature adjusted model current.  Thus the actual instance
critical current will vary with temperature.

lser
Parasitic series inductance value.

lsh
Parasitic inductance in the shunt resistance iv model parameter vshunt
is given, overrides the lsh0,lsh1 model parameters.

off
Not used.

ic
initial condition vector, vj, phi

phi,ic_phase
initial condition: phase

vj,ic_v
initial condition: voltage

noise
Not used.

Read Only instance parameters

v
Terminal voltage.

phase
Junction phase.

n
Junction SFQ pulse count.

phsf
Junction SFQ pulse flag.

phst
Junction SFQ last pulse time.

icrit
Maximum critical current.

cc
Capacitance current.

cj
Josephson pair current.

cq
Quasiparticle current.

c
Total device current.

cap
Device capacitance.

g0
Subgap conductance.

gn
Normal conductance.

node1
Reference node.

node2
Second node.

pnode
Phase node if used.

lsernode
Internal node if lser nonzero.

lserbrn
Internal branch if lser is nonzero.

lshnode
Internal node if shunt resistor inductance is nonzero.

lshbrn
Internal branch if shunt resistor inductance is nonzero.

