This directory is a common receiving point for the packages created
from the various tools.

Packages can be installed with the wr_install script.  Run this script
withoun arguments for instructions.  The wr_install script file
contains more information as a comment.

The wr_install script and others can be found in the ../util folder.

Packages can removed with the wr_install script, or on Windows without
Cygwin there is a uninstall.bat script.  There is no need to remove
a package before it is updated, the update process removes unneeded
old files automatically (actually saving old Xic/WRspice distributions
in the Safe Install format).

======
XicTools Installation

If you have an existing commercial Xic or WRspice installation, i.e.,
one that needs a LICENSE file, it will be removed.  The wr_install
script will do this automatically for Linux and OS X.  It is also
automatic on Windows if you install using wr_install from a Cygwin
bash window.

On Windows, if you don't have Cygwin or don't use wr_install for
installation, you should run the cleanold.bat script from a CMD prompt
before installing any XicTools-4.3 packages.

You don't need to remove the gtk2-bundle packages on OS X or Windows,
these will still be needed for the present releases.  The cleanup
scripts leave these alone.

When cleaning using the scripts, you have the option of saving the old
programs in case you ever need to run them again for some reason.  If
you do this and use a license server, then you will need to save your
license server as well.

Windows (native):

From a command prompt, run the cleanup.bat script.  This will prompt
whether to save existing Xic and WRspice installations, and clear the
machine of all pre-4.3 installed XicTools packages.  This will also
clear the machine of FastHenry, FastCap, and ADMS packages from
Whiteley Research.  These are now included in the Xictools framework,
with new packages available.

OS X, Linux:

The cleanup operation will be run from wr_install.  This will prompt
whether to save existing Xic and WRspice installations, and clear the
machine of all pre-4.3 installed XicTools packages.

You will likely want to manually uninstall fastcap, fasthenry, and
adms if you have installed any of these from Whiteley Research source
code.  These programs are now included in the XicTools framework and
new packages are available.

