Dear BSIM Users,

Thank you for your support of the BSIM models. We are releasing the BSIM4.3.0 models 
today, May 09, 2003.

BSIM4.3.0 is developed to address several new issues in modeling sub-0.13 micron CMOS 
technology and RF high-speed CMOS circuit simulation. The plans and progress of the 
development were presented and discussed at several Compact Model Council (CMC) 
meetings in 2002 ~ 2003 period. Many inputs and several requests from those meetings 
were incorporated into the model. BSIM4.3.0 version was tested by several companies 
and their feedback was incorporated into this version as well. 

BSIM4.3.0 has the following major improvements and additions over BSIM4.2.1:  

1. A new scalable stress effect model  for process induced stress effect; device 
performance becoming thus a function of the active area geometry  and the location  
of the device in the active area;

2. A unified current-saturation model that includes all mechanisms of current saturation
- velocity saturation, velocity overshoot and source end velocity limit;  

3. A new temperature model format that allows convenient prediction of temperature 
effects on saturation velocity, mobility, and S/D resistances;

4. Enhanced accuracy and flexibility of holistic thermal noise model;

5. Improved accuracy of  forward body bias model; and

6. Extension of gate direct tunneling model to multiple-layer gate dielectrics.

In addition, there are nine bug fixes in this version.  The complete list of bugs and 
fixes and the users who reported them, the BSIM4.3.0 source code, BSIM4.3.0 user manual,  
BSIM4.3.0 new enhancement  document  and testing examples can  be downloaded at: 
http://www-device.eecs.berkeley.edu/~bsim3/bsim4.html

BSIM4.3.0 beta received intensive evaluation by TSMC, Silvaco, STmicroelectronics, TI 
Tiburon-DA and Motorola. Their testing materially and substantially improved the quality 
of the present production release. We would like to express our sincere thanks to the 
input from all the users.  Special thank goes to  Dr. Keith Green, Chairman of the 
Technical Issues Subcommittee of CMC; Britt Brooks, chair of CMC, Dr. Joe Watts, 
Secretary of CMC, and Dr. Ke-Wei Su for their guidance and technical support.

We would like to acknowledge the data and support provided by the following companies: 
TSMC, NEC, IBM, Mindspeed, TI, Hitachi, and AMD.

We thank you for your support to BSIM and welcome your feedback on this latest model.

Sincerely,

BSIM Team
UC Berkeley
