$Id: README,v 1.1 2016/01/16 18:42:53 stevew Exp $

This directory contains most of the back-end logic for the wrcad.com
web site, for maintaining license keys, creating licenses and
passwords, etc.

cgi-bin contains the site cgi files.  Of the files contained therein,
the relevant ones are prices.cgi, keyform.cgi, and orderform.cgi. 
These are just wrappers around programs contained in the www
directory.

ppw contains addpw/ppw programs which maintain the .htpasswd database.
Passwords are active for a limited time, one should set up a cron
job to refresh the list periodically.

www contains programs for handling the key generation and order forms,
and for generating a license.  These take care of updating the keys
database.

These three directories are mirrored on the server, under
/home/webadmin/wrcad.com.  We will call this WWWROOT here.

The key directories are in WWWROOT/keys.  Each license key has a
directory of the same name which contains data, past orders and demos,
license and log files, etc.  The "serial" used as part of the file
names is a time code as from the time() C runtime function.

The validate program from ../secure is kept in WWWROOT/lic.

Note that if these locations change, the #defines and other things
in the programs probably need changing.

To generate a LICENSE file, update the key, and email the license to
the user,  The "New Order" or "New Deml" notification email text
should be piped to WWWROOT/www/mklic.

Here's the entire procedure:
-  User visits the wrcad.com web site.  wrcad.com/prices.html is
   aliased to wrcad.com/cgi-bin/prices.cgi, which echos
   www/prices.in with some text substitutions.  This is the
   Prices and Ordering page.

-  The user will need a key to generate a license.  The Get a Key form
   takes basic machine info, plus user's contact info.  The Submit
   button will call the www/keyform executable via a cgi, which will
   create the key and addit the data to the keys database in
   /keys.  Email will be set to WR and the user giving the key.
   The Prices and Ordering page is updated with the new key value
   added to the Ordering form.

-  This can all be skipped it the user already has a key, in which
   case this is entered directly int the Ordering form.

-  An existing key can also be given to the Find Existing function,
   which will fill in the fields of the Get a Key form from the
   saved data.

-  The Ordering form is used to order a demo or paid licnese, for
   programs as specified.  The submit button will pop up a
   confirmation page.  If the user confirms, and order email is sent
   to WR and to the user.  The page is modified to include a button
   allowing the user to pay by credit card through 2Checkout.com.

-  When WR receives this email, and payment confirmetion, the email
   is piped to www/mklic which creates the license and repository
   password, and emails these to the user, with a copy to WR.
   The password allows access to the program distribution site, taking
   the key as the "user".  This is active only while the license is
   active.

Each key directory will contain copies of all related demos, orders,
license files, etc.  The parent directory contains all customer
ordering info.  Obviously, this should be backed up regularly.


