$Id: README,v 1.1 2014/04/22 19:58:04 stevew Exp $

This is BSIM6.1.0 Release 03/20/2014.

The complete package, which includes the PDF manual, is available from
UC Berkeley:

      http://www-device.eecs.berkeley.edu/bsim/?page=BSIM6

The manual will also probably be available in the "docs" directory of
the distribution repository at http://wrcad.com (password protected,
for customers only).

This is the follow-on to the high-priority bsim6.0 model, but
unfortunately can not be recommended.  See the QA report in the
separate QA package download for details.
Faults include
1) Poor agreement with QA data.
2) Poor agreement with previous model, requiring flag-value
   changes.
3) Poor numerical conditioning, requires ".options extprec".

This *MUST* be built with the adms-2.3.0-wr package obtained from
wrcad.com, in the "free software" area.

A pre-built module is available in the "module_dist" directory.

To build:

0.  Make sure that the admst-2.3.0-wr package is installed on your
system.  This is available from the free software area of wrcad.com. 
The package has important improvements and bug fixes, and is required
for building modules for WRspice.  Use of another adms distribution
will cause trouble.

1.  If you are reading this from the WRspice installation area, copy
this directory to a personal work area, and work from there.  Below,
"this directory" implies the copied directory (with its files and
any sub-directories).

2.  The Makefile has been provided.  Have a look at the top part of
the file where the configuration variables are set, and read the
comments.  Make any desired changes.

3.  Type "make".  This will create and compile the C++ files, eventually
producing the loadable module named "bsim6.so" ("bsim6.dylib" in OS X).

4.  Use the devload command or -m command-line option in WRspice to
load the module.  You will then be able to run the examples.

Note - only one of bsim6.0/bsim6.1 can be loaded at the same time, due
to use of the same model level and name for both.

