$Id: README,v 1.5 2014/04/22 19:34:09 stevew Exp $

This is the MEXTRAM BJT model Verilog-A code.  Documentation and newer
versions may be available from the developers at NXP
(http://www.nxp.com/models/bipolar-models/mextram.html) or TU Delft
(http://mextram.ewi.tudelft.nl/page_Introduction.php).

There were two changes made in the source code, search for "XXX".

1.  In parameters.inc, added back the "exclude 0" which had been
removed via an "insideADMS" define.

2.  In tscaling.inc, added back the ability to set temperature to
other than the reference value, which had been removed with a
"insideADMS" define.

Note to model developers:
Please use "insideADMS" to turn on ADMS extensions ONLY.

Full QA data are available in the separate QA download file.  WRspice
agreement with QA data is outstanding.

A pre-built module is available in the "module_dist" directory.

To build:

0.  Make sure that the admst-2.3.0-wr package is installed on your
system.  This is available from the free software area of wrcad.com. 
The package has important improvements and bug fixes, and is required
for building modules for WRspice.  Use of another adms distribution
will cause trouble.

1.  If you are reading this from the WRspice installation area, copy
this directory to a personal work area, and work from there.  Below,
"this directory" implies the copied directory (with its files and
any sub-directories).

2.  The Makefile has been provided.  Have a look at the top part of
the file where the configuration variables are set, and read the
comments.  Make any desired changes.

3.  Type "make".  This will create and compile the C++ files, eventually
producing the loadable module named "bjt504.so" ("bjt504.dylib" in OS X).

Note: there are several variations of the bjt504 model which can be
built.

4.  Use the devload command or -m command-line option in WRspice to
load the module.  You will then be able to run the examples.

NOTE: Like the hicum2 bjt model, this shows some convergence issues.
See the notes in the test files about additions I made to get around
this.

