$Id: README,v 1.15 2017/02/16 00:10:43 stevew Exp $

MRouter Open-Source Maze Routing Plug-in Library and Application
----------------------------------------------------------------

Contact:  Stephen Whiteley, Whiteley Research Inc.,
          stevew at wrcad dot com

This is "MRouter" which began life as Qrouter from
opencircuitdesign.com.

The original source code was converted from C to C++, and relevant
parts imported and modified to implement two classes:

1. A database class (cLDDB).  This caches technology and routing
   information.  It can read and write technology and route
   information in LEF and DEF formats, using the Cadence LEF/DEF tool
   kits instead of the stand-alone readers from Qrouter.  Eventially
   this may link directly to OpenAccess.

2. The maze router (cMRouter).
   This contains the router itself.  It is tightly coupled to the
   database through the cLDDBif interface.  Originally the router class
   was derived from the database, the components are now modular.

The two classes are exported as a plug-in library, intended to be used
with a third-party application.  The Xic program from Whiteley
Research (wrcad.com) has a developing interface to the MRouter
plug-in.  That program will provide full control of the routing
operations, visualization, etc.

The MRouter can also operate stand-alone by linking to a main
function, much like the Qrouter.

The Tcl/Tk support found in the Qrouter is gone in MRouter, a perhaps
temporary casualty of the porting.  However, a set of command handler
functions is now provided, which can be wrapped into scripting languages
such as Tcl and Python.  The objective is to provide an abstract command
interface than can be adapted to any language.  The internal graphical
interface is also not available at present.

Building MRouter

run "configure", then type "make".  This will, on a good day,
1.  Unpack the LEF/DEF tool kits and apply patches.
2.  Create a Makefile with dependencies in the lddb and mrouter
    subdirectories.
3.  Compile the code in the lef/def/lddb/mrouter subdirectories.

As root, type "make install".  This will install the MRouter under
/usr/local/mrouter.  The directory will contain the mr stand-alone
binary, the libmrouter plug-in shared library (which can also be
linked at compile time in the normal way), examples, and
documentation.

You should have success on CentOS/RedHat 5/6/7, OpenSuse 13.1/2, OS X,
Windows with Cygwin or MinGW, as I run those.  Other Linux
distributions will probably work, please report problems.

"make test" will route the map9v3 Qflow example found in the test
subdirectory.

Q.  What is a plug-in library?
A.  A plug-in library is a shared library internally configured so
    that all functions are easily accessible when the library is
    loaded at run time using dlopen (or LoadLibrary in Windows).  This
    can be done in C++ but not in C, by using interface classes and
    inheritance.

A plug-in provides the following advantages:
1.  It is not required for an application to run.  If the application
    successfully loads the plug-in, then the application can configure
    itself to use the features, but if the plug-in is not found, those
    features are simply not available.  With an ordinary shared library,
    the library must exist or the application will not run.

2.  It is my opinion that A closed-source application can load and use
    a GPL "free" plug-in without GPL-infecting the application.  This
    is different from a normal shared library, in which case the
    distributed binary can be argued is a "derivative work" of the
    shared library (the program won't run without it), and therefor
    the entire application is under GPL.  For a plug-in, the linking
    takes place at run-time, at the user's site, initiated by the
    user.  The "derivative work" is therefor produced by the user,
    which is unambiguously within the user's rights.

This is very early in the development and many things are lacking,
including documentation.  This is an open-source project and feedback
and help would be appreciated.


Changes

1.0.0
Initial release.

1.0.1
Sync with qrouter-1.3.57.
Update configure.in to be more portable.
Lots of new debugging output available.

1.0.2
Change internal data storage type from double to "lefu_t" (integer). 
This avoids comparison ambiguity due to numerical noise, uses less
memory, and may be faster.
Use of new mrNodeInfo struct with per-point allocation and memory
management uses less memory.

1.1.0
Fixed bug in ripupNet in mr_maze.cc that caused stage2 to fail for
openMSP430.

This is the first publicly available release.  The minor release
number is set to 1, this will represent the "interface level" and will
change when exported header definitions change.  Applications should
not load a plug-in with different release level.
(Never actually released.)

1.1.1           01/15/2017  (initial public release)
Physical net data from DEF input is now dealt with properly, including
SPECIALNETS.  There is a new dbPath data struct which describes a list
of physical routes, now hung on the dbNet after routing or when
reading DEF.

A separate array is now used for the nets after reordering, preserving
the original order.  The order of SPECIALNETS may now be different than
Qrouter, even with compatibility option set.

There is now provision for up to 6 "global" nets (i.e., vdd, gnd,
etc).  The original vdd/gnd handling has been updated.

The net->netnum is now basically an offset into an array, making finding
net by netnum trivial.

New "increments" variable.  This is a list of positive integers, which
gives the mask halo width for each pass.  Previously, each pass halo has
a fixed width of one.

New stack class and test for duplicate entries eliminates transient
memory bloat during routing.

New elapsed time and internal memory use diagnostics.

Now use unsigned short for routing grid storage, saves memory.

New hash table class used for finding of gates/nets/pins by name.
