$Id: README,v 1.6 2017/01/24 00:11:23 stevew Exp $

This directory provides some miscellaneous examples.

main-plg.cc, Makefile, Makefile.in

  This is a version of the 'mrouter' program that loads the MRouter at
  run-time.  It contains example C++ code which illustrates how to
  load the MRouter plug-in shared library object.  This will be of
  interest to application developers who wish to import the MRouter
  functionality, without linking at compile-time in the traditional
  manner.

  To build, first build and install MRouter.  Then, from here, type
  "make" to build the mrouter-plg binary.  It works the same as
  mrouter, but loads the libmrouter object at run time.

map9v3.def

  The DEF file for the map9v3 example, which describes the standard
  cell instance placement and netlist.

map9v3.rsc

  This is new-style routing script to perform routing of the map9v3
  example using the stand-alone mrouter (or mrouter-plg) program.  The
  operations and result are very similar to running "make test" in the
  mrouter/test directory, however that uses the config file approach
  inherited from Qrouter.

  DON'T RUN THIS HERE (in the MRouter installation area) as you
  probably don't have the required permissions and you don't want to
  create files here anyway.

  Instead, create a new directory in your work space, and copy
  map9v3.rsc to this new directory.

  If the MRouter in not installed in the standard place
  (/usr/local/mrouter), you will need to edit the map9v3.rsc file to
  correct the path given on the second line.

  From your directory, and assuming that the "mrouter" program is in
  your search path, you can give the command

    mrouter < map9v3.rsc

  This will do the routing, writing output into a DEF file.

map9v3_blk.def

  A DEF file that specifies the same obstructions as in map9v3.rsc,
  but in DEF format.

openMSP430.def
openMSP430.rsc
openMSP430_blk.def

  As above, but for a different design.  This is a fairly complex
  circuit, and may take about an hour to route (depending on your
  computer).

osu35/

  This is the LEF and GDSII files associated with the Oklahoma State
  350nm open-source CMOS library, which are used by the examples.  For
  the examples to work, these files must be found, meaning that the
  MRouter must be installed in the standard location
  (/usr/local/mrouter) or the scripts must be edited to correct the
  path.

xic/

  This provides files allowing the examples to be run from the Xic
  program.  See the README file there for more information.

